[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY: So Matt, what's
in your bundle?
MATT: I don't have any bundles.
ADDY: You don't have
any JavaScript bundles?
MATT: I don't write
JavaScript anymore.
ADDY: Has JavaScript
fatigue finally gotten you?
MATT: Yeah, I'll say--
I'm just-- I'm dead now.
ADDY: What do you do these days?
MATT: I come and meet
you in a coffee shop,
and get free coffee, because
I'm a delightful human being.
ADDY: Like any normal developer.
I see.
OK, so for everybody else out
there working on Java scripts,
there's a really cool
tool I recently discovered
called Source Map Explorer.
You can get it on npm.
This is sort of useful
for understanding
what is in your JavaScript
bundle, which you're
shipping down to your users.
MATT: So how is this different
from just normal source maps?
What does it give you?
ADDY: It sort of
understands your dependency
graph and dependency tree.
Will visualize it for you
in a nice, pleasant way.
MATT: OK.
ADDY: OK, so I'm going to run
it against a source map that
was generated from one
of my vendor bundles,
and just show you
what this looks like.
So here we've got Chrome open.
I've got the Source Map
Explorer dependency graph
sort of visualized here.
And this is kind of nice,
because I can take a look
at any one part of my graph.
So I can see here--
all these are
all of the different bits and
pieces of React that I'm using.
I've got React router
over here in the corner.
And I can zoom in and out.
It's so nice and pretty.
But I've also got-- I can see
what percentage of my bundle
is being taken up by
different libraries.
Here I can see
that, in this case,
Firebase is taking up
quite a lot of my bundle.
But I wanted to
show you a pro tip
that I was walking through with
David East the other day, so--
and Source Map Explorer
visualizes this quite nicely.
So I can actually just require
in the pieces of Firebase
that I'm actually using, so--
MATT: Rather than a whole
massive bundle of thing.
ADDY: Rather than
the whole thing.
So, few minor changes.
I can go and do a new build.
And if that all works out, I can
show you the before and after,
thanks to some movie magic.
Now we're going to go and run it
against the new vendor bundle.
And what we can
see now, is that A,
we've got a much smaller
bundle on the whole.
But B, we've also changed
the look of this graph.
So earlier we had Firebase, it's
about 304 kilobytes, sort of.
That's unminified, ungzipped,
or anything like that.
But it contained database,
authentication, storage,
an app.
I really only need
app and database.
So I just switched my
code over to using those.
Atomic modules--
and here you can
see that we've actually
managed to make
our app a tiny bit smaller.
MATT: Yay!
ADDY: It's 138
kilobytes, before we've
minified it and gzipped it.
MATT: All you need to use this
is to just the source map.
You don't need the original
source, or anything like that?
ADDY: It just works
on source maps.
So, normally--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ADDY: --like for dev, at least,
I usually have my source maps
on my JavaScript files.
MATT: Yeah, it's kind of nice.
Because I guess, if
you strip stuff out,
the actual main source, by
whatever tooling that then gets
accounted for in the source
map-- yeah, it's nice.
ADDY: There's a bunch of
different bundle analysis tools
are available.
Web Pack Bundle
Analyzer is another one.
That's got
colorization in place.
And it's super sweet.
Specific to Web Pack,
I think, at the moment.
But it's also
worth checking out.
But yeah, tools
like this are just
great for understanding exactly
what you're shipping down
to your users.
So it's good to ask yourself,
what's in your bundle?
MATT: I see what you did there.
Nice.